---
title: ModCloth Open Source
layout: default
---

ModCloth Open Source
====================

These are the recommended minimum standards for open source code that
has been developed (was born) at ModCloth.  They should not be
considered hard and fast rules, but effort should be given to meeting
these recommendations before publishing as well as revisiting projects
that have already been published.

As with IETF and W3C documents, this document makes use of **MUST** and
**SHOULD** to indicate levels of importance.  Breaking from
recommendations that use "**MUST**" should not be taken lightly.

## The path to releasing

Each project is assumed to have at least two major stages of development
-- pre-release and post-release.  Reaching a stable API release of
`1.0.0` is another story and the subject is historically fertile ground
for bikeshedding.  Don't think about it until you have to think about
it.

  - Pre-release, the project **SHOULD** be owned by the [modcloth-labs
  github organization](https://github.com/modcloth-labs).  Everyone in
  the ModCloth tech organization has administrative rights, so this should
  not be a barrier to entry.
  - Projects **SHOULD** be developed in the open!  One should feel free
  to start in a peripheral github organization such as "modcloth-labs"
  or even in a personal account, but **SHOULD** resist the temptation to
  keep the project in a private repository until it's deemed ready for
  public consumption.
  - Before releasing to a community repository such as
  [rubygems](https://rubygems.org) or the [opscode community
  repo](http://community.opscode.com/), one **SHOULD** do the following:
      - Move the project into the [modcloth github organization](http://github.com/modcloth).
      - Prepare a blog post announcing the project.
      (*TODO*: links to blog stuff)
  - When releasing the project publicly, a blog post **SHOULD** be
  published on the same day.  Tweeting **SHOULD** happen, too.
  - Don't forget to *star* the repo and encourage other interested parties
  to do likewise.

## Docs

Each repository **MUST** include a file named `README[.ext]`.

  - The `README` **SHOULD** describe the *intent* and/or *design goals*
  of the project.

### <a id="file-naming-and-formatting"></a>File naming and formatting

If not using the extensionless filename, e.g. `README` (which **SHOULD**
be plain text), prefer `.md` or `.rst` or something else widely used and
easily rendered or readable in source format.

## License

Each repository **MUST** include a file named `LICENSE[.ext]`.
See also "[File naming and formatting](#file-naming-and-formatting)".

For code projects, the license **SHOULD** be the MIT License.

  - The Copyright line **SHOULD** be <q>Copyright (c) ModCloth, Inc.</q>
  - MIT is the default license generated by `bundler gem` and is
  otherwise available
  [on the OSI website](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
  - Some code generation libraries such as `bundler` omit the line
  declaring the license to be MIT.  A line reading "MIT License"
  **SHOULD** be added to the `LICENSE` file below the top Copyright
  line.

For prose (non-code) projects, the license **SHOULD** be
[CC BY 3.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/).

## Contribution Guidelines

Each repository **SHOULD** include a file named `CONTRIBUTING[.ext]`.
See also "[File naming and formatting](#file-naming-and-formatting)".

The contribution guidelines **SHOULD** include the following:

  - Whether or not pull requests are accepted (they should be!)
  - Whether feature branches are expected for every change or requesting
  pulls from the `master` branch of a fork is acceptable.
  - Whether or not to add oneself to the `AUTHORS` file.
  - Which branch is considered "trunk" (typically `master`) so that pull
  request submitters know which branch to target.
  - What a pull request submitter should expect.

## Authors

Each repository **SHOULD** include a file named `AUTHORS[.ext]`.
See also "[File naming and formatting](#file-naming-and-formatting)".

  - If present, the `AUTHORS` file **MUST** contain a list of the
  original authors.  The names **SHOULD** be `Firstname Lastname` and the
  list **SHOULD** be alphabetized.

## Versioning

If applicable, each project **SHOULD** contain a version that follows
the rules of [semver](http://semver.org/).

  - The first publicly-released version **SHOULD** be `0.1.0`.

## Code quality

Determining quality standards for all project types is not in the scope
of this document.  That being said, projects **SHOULD** have tests
covering the functionality claimed in the project's design goals.  Gaps
in test coverage **SHOULD** be (loudly) acknowledged.

## Plan for the future

Continued maintenance and determining when a project should be
"archived" are arguably as important as the pre-release and feature
development phases.  This concern overlaps a bit with the *Contribution
Guidelines* section.

  - Each project **SHOULD** have at least one designated maintainer.
  - An email address of `github+<projectname>@modcloth.com` **SHOULD**
  be advertised in the `README` or some such visible place like the
  `gemspec` or Chef cookbook `metadata.rb`.
  - The design goals **SHOULD** be clearly stated *somewhere*, whether
  in the `README`, enumerated in a `TODO[.ext]` file, or captured as
  github issues.
