---
title: ModCloth Labs
layout: default
---

ModCloth Labs
=============

ModCloth Labs is where half-baked ideas go to:

 - [Metamorphose](#metamorphosis)
 - [Mutate](#mutation)
 - [Die](#death)

If you're a ModCloth Engineer and you're considering embarking on such a
quest that would result in one of the above, go read this (it won't take
long!):

 - [Open Source Recommendations](recommendations.html)

The remainder of this document expands upon the reasons why such a thing
as ModCloth Labs should exist using loosely anecdotal logic without any
references.  It'll be fine.

## <a id="metamorphosis"></a>Metamorphosis
[Metamorphosis](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metamorphosis) can be
observed whenever a nutty idea gains traction and starts maturing into
something with oodles of "growed-up" features.

Taking a codebase through such a transformation can be difficult, but it
*is possible*.

With any luck, significant chunks of such a codebase are identified
along the way for extraction into separate projects, which might look
something like
[asymmetric mitosis](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asymmetric_cell_division).

**Pro tip**: [monoliths](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monolith) can be
quite pretty when they aren't made of code.

## <a id="mutation"></a>Mutation
[Mutation](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutation) can be observed
whenever the developer lineup of a project changes, lead developers
change their minds about The Right Way &reg; to do things, a project's
dependencies change so dramatically that various guts have to be
redesigned, and many other unexpected life events not directly related
to growing features.

In multi-cellular organisms, mutation often results in very undesirable
results including cancer and death.  If, however, the organism is able to
reproduce, the next generation may exhibit more favorable traits or
survivability.

Compare this process to a project that gains popularity, gets forked by
lots of interested parties, then one of the forks gains more popularity
or inspires a new workalike project that becomes better-maintained than
the parent.  It happens.  Crazy.

As for the cases where forks are re-integrated with parent projects,
well, that's just difficult to describe in biological terms.

## <a id="death"></a>Death
Declaring a project to be [dead](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Death) can
be painful, but is often the best and/or most classy thing to do.

Death can take many forms.  A project may slowly vanish into obscurity
(if it ever had the good fortune to *not* be obscure).  The current
project maintainers may publicly declare a project to be in need of new
maintainers (which is awfully nice of them).

In the least-classy form, projects are completely removed from the
interwebs.  Don't do this.  It's not OK.

**Pro tip**: If a project with lots of public interest gets a new home,
 it's nice to leave a stub repository in place that points to the new
home.  Links are great.
